Skip to main content

President Donald J. Trump has signed a Continuing Resolution through January 30th. Thanks to the President’s decisive leadership in the face of radical left-wing obstructionism, the Department of the Treasury has now resumed normal operations.

An official website of the United States government

Here’s how you know
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
ABOUT TREASURY POLICY ISSUES DATA SERVICES NEWS YEAR IN REVIEW WORKING FAMILIES TAX CUTS
SEARCH
BREADCRUMB
HOME  ABOUT  GENERAL INFORMATION  ROLE OF THE TREASURY 
ABOUT
General Information
Role of the Treasury
Officials
Organizational Chart
Orders and Directives
Offices
Bureaus
Budget, Financial Reporting, Planning and Performance
History
Careers at Treasury
Role of the Treasury

The U.S. Department of the Treasury's mission is to maintain a strong economy and create economic and job opportunities by promoting the conditions that enable economic growth and stability at home and abroad, strengthen national security by combating threats and protecting the integrity of the financial system, and manage the U.S. Government’s finances and resources effectively.

Treasury's mission highlights its role as the steward of U.S. economic and financial systems, and as an influential participant in the world economy.
 

The Treasury Department is the executive agency responsible for promoting economic prosperity and ensuring the financial security of the United States. The Department is responsible for a wide range of activities such as advising the President on economic and financial issues, encouraging sustainable economic growth, and fostering improved governance in financial institutions. The Department of the Treasury operates and maintains systems that are critical to the nation's financial infrastructure, such as the production of coin and currency, the disbursement of payments to the American public, revenue collection, and the borrowing of funds necessary to run the federal government. The Department works with other federal agencies, foreign governments, and international financial institutions to encourage global economic growth, raise standards of living, and to the extent possible, predict and prevent economic and financial crises. The Treasury Department also performs a critical and far-reaching role in enhancing national security by implementing economic sanctions against foreign threats to the U.S., identifying and targeting the financial support networks of national security threats, and improving the  safeguards of our financial systems.

 

ORGANIZATION

The Department of the Treasury is organized into two major components, the Departmental offices and the operating bureaus. The Departmental Offices are primarily responsible for the formulation of policy and management of the Department as a whole, while the operating bureaus carry out the specific operations assigned to the Department. Our bureaus make up 98% of the Treasury work force. The basic functions of the Department of the Treasury include:

Managing Federal finances;
Collecting taxes, duties and monies paid to and due to the U.S. and paying all bills of the U.S.;
Currency and coinage;
Managing Government accounts and the public debt;
Supervising national banks and thrift institutions;
Advising on domestic and international financial, monetary, economic, trade and tax policy;
Enforcing Federal finance and tax laws;
Investigating and prosecuting tax evaders, counterfeiters, and forgers.

 

MORE INFORMATION
Monthly Treasury Statement of Receipts and Outlays
How Your Money Is Spent
National Debt
Strategic Plan
Treasury Departmental Offices
Bureaus
Act of Congress Establishing the Treasury Department
BUREAUS
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade (TTB)
Bureau of Engraving and Printing (BEP)
Bureau of the Fiscal Service (BFS)
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN)
Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)
U.S. Mint
INSPECTOR GENERAL SITES
Office of Inspector General (OIG)
Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)
Report Scams, Fraud, Waste & Abuse
Special Inspector General for Pandemic Recovery (SIGPR)
U.S. GOVERNMENT SHARED SERVICES
Administrative Resource Center (ARC)- Bureau of the Fiscal Service
Treasury Direct Services for Governments
Financial Management (FM) Marketplace Catalog
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
Privacy Act
Small Business Contacts
Budget and Performance
TreasuryDirect.gov Securities/Bonds
Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
No FEAR Act Data
Whistleblower Protection
OTHER GOVERNMENT SITES
USA.gov
USAJOBS.gov
OPM.gov
MyMoney.gov
Data.gov
Forms.gov
Regulations.gov
PaymentAccuracy.gov
my Social Security
Vote.gov
Privacy Policy  Google Privacy  Site Policies and Notices  FAQs  Feedback  Careers  Accessibility  Contact
Required Plug-ins Adobe® Reader®